Add an optional section for InstantOn (#199)
OpenLiberty/guide-spring-boot: README.adoc

:projectid: spring-boot
:page-duration: 20 minutes
:page-releasedate: 2019-11-04
:page-majorupdateddate: 2024-12-02
:page-description: Learn how to containerize, package, and run a Spring Boot application on Open Liberty.

> :page-tags: ['docker']

Reviewer: It would be nice if we had podman instructions also.

Using podman is more simple because it does not require the extra run/commit commands that docker does.

Author: To keep the flow smooth, use docker instruction is better. But, added a small paragraph for Podman and a link to the doc.

== What you'll learn

The starting point of this guide is the finished application from the https://spring.io/guides/gs/spring-boot/[Building an Application with Spring Boot^] guide. If you are not familiar with Spring Boot, complete that guide first. Java 21 is required to run this project.

> You will learn how to use the `springBootUtility` command to deploy a Spring Boot application in Docker on Open Liberty without modification. This command stores the dependent library JAR files of the application to the target library cache, and packages the remaining application artifacts into a thin application JAR file.

Reviewer 2: Should there also be a mention here about how you can learn how to use Liberty InstantOn with your Spring Boot apps for faster startup?

Author: Appended a statement to the 2nd paragraph in the "What you'll learn" section

[role='no_copy']
```
REPOSITORY    TAG       IMAGE ID         CREATED           SIZE

> springboot    latest    3a5492c0cbeb     27 seconds ago    789MB

Reviewer: Can we update the guide to use Java 21 so it can use the UBI-minimal image with the JRE.  That would make this a much smaller image size.

Author: Updated to use java 21 and UBI-minimal image

docker logs springBootContainer
```

> Wait for the following message, which indicates that Liberty’s startup is complete in several seconds:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Wait several seconds for the following message, which indicates that Liberty’s startup is complete:
```

```
endif::[]

After you are finished checking out the application, stop your container by running the following command:

[role='command']
```
docker stop springBootContainer
```

ifndef::cloud-hosted[]
== Faster starting up the container with InstantOn - Optional

Open Liberty InstantOn provides fast startup times for MicroProfile and Jakarta EE applications. In this section, you’ll learn how to build an InstantOn image that provides fast startup times. Your application can start in milliseconds, without compromising on throughput, memory, development-production parity, or Java language features.

> If you are working on a Linux system with kernel version 5.9 or greater, you can continue this section, otherwise, go to the <<running-the-application-on-open-liberty>> section. You can run the following command to check out the kernel version of your system:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you are working on a Linux system with kernel version 5.9 or greater, you can continue with this section; otherwise, go to the <<running-the-application-on-open-liberty>> section. You can run the following command to check out the kernel version of your system:
```

[role='command']
```
uname -r
```

> You have built the `springboot` container image in the previous section. To take a checkpoint of the application process with the `afterAppStart` option, run the following command:

Reviewer: To use InstantOn with a Spring Boot 3 application we should recommend enabling the `crac-1.4` feature.

See https://openliberty.io/blog/2023/09/26/spring-boot-3-instant-on.html where we have a `crac.xml` file that we copy into the `/config/configDropins/defaults` directory with the following contents:

```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<server description="Enable the org.crac API">

    <featureManager>
        <feature>crac-1.4</feature>
    </featureManager>

</server>
```

Another option is to stop using the `/opt/ol/wlp/templates/servers/springBoot3/server.xml` template and have a `server.xml` in the `src/main/liberty/config/` folder that enables all the features from the template and the `crac-1.4` feature.

Author: To keep the flow smooth, used the crac.xml way

  --privileged \
  --env WLP_CHECKPOINT=afterAppStart \
  springboot
```

When the application process checkpoint completes, the `springBootCheckpointContainer` application container is stopped and exits. The stopped `springBootCheckpointContainer` container contains the data from the InstantOn checkpoint process. To take this checkpoint process data and commit it to an application container image layer, run the following commands:

[role='command']
```
docker commit springBootCheckpointContainer springboot-instanton
docker rm springBootCheckpointContainer
```

The stopped `springBootCheckpointContainer` container is no longer needed and can safely be removed.

To verify that the InstantOn image is built, run the `docker images` command to list all local Docker images:

[role='command']
```
docker images
```

Your `springboot-instanton` image appears in the list of Docker images. It shows a faster startup time than the original `springboot` image.

[role='no_copy']
```
REPOSITORY             TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED          SIZE
springboot-instanton   latest    c4aabcdd64bf   20 seconds ago   879MB
springboot             latest    3a5492c0cbeb   14 minutes ago   789MB
```

> 

Reviewer: When using the minimal Java 21 image the sizes are better:

```
springboot-instanton          latest              59436e0eaa1e   7 minutes ago    588MB
springboot                    latest              90bf0225619c   11 minutes ago   489MB
```

Author: updated to use minimal Java 21 image

Run the `springboot-instanton` InstantOn application image by the following command:

[role='command']
```
docker run \
  --rm -d \
  --name springBootContainer \
  --cap-add=CHECKPOINT_RESTORE \
  --cap-add=SETPCAP \
  --security-opt seccomp=unconfined \
  -p 9080:9080 \
  springboot-instanton
```

Run the following command to see the container logs:

[role='command']
```
docker logs springBootContainer
```

Liberty’s startup is complete in less than a second:

[role='no_copy']
----
CWWKF0011I: The defaultServer server is ready to run a smarter planet.
The defaultServer server started in 0.323 seconds.

> ----

Reviewer: When you enable the `crac-1.4` feature you see more logs from Spring that it is restoring:

```
[AUDIT   ] Launching defaultServer (Open Liberty 24.0.0.11/wlp-1.0.95.cl241120241021-1102) on Eclipse OpenJ9 VM, version 21.0.5+11-LTS (en_US)
2024-11-20T20:48:16.222Z  INFO 1027 --- [ecutor-thread-1] o.s.c.support.DefaultLifecycleProcessor  : Restarting Spring-managed lifecycle beans after JVM restore
[AUDIT   ] CWWKT0016I: Web application available (default_host): http://c07dab539722:9080/
2024-11-20T20:48:16.304Z  INFO 1027 --- [ecutor-thread-1] w.s.c.ServletWebServerApplicationContext : Root WebApplicationContext: initialization completed in 52386 ms
2024-11-20T20:48:16.307Z  INFO 1027 --- [ecutor-thread-1] o.s.c.support.DefaultLifecycleProcessor  : Spring-managed lifecycle restart completed (restored JVM running for 270 ms)
[AUDIT   ] CWWKC0452I: The Liberty server process resumed operation from a checkpoint in 0.288 seconds.
[AUDIT   ] CWWKZ0001I: Application thin-guide-spring-boot-0.1.0 started in 0.294 seconds.
[AUDIT   ] CWWKF0012I: The server installed the following features: [crac-1.4, expressionLanguage-5.0, pages-3.1, servlet-6.0, springBoot-3.0, ssl-1.0, transportSecurity-1.0, websocket-2.1].
[AUDIT   ] CWWKF0011I: The defaultServer server is ready to run a smarter planet. The defaultServer server started in 0.300 seconds.
```

Author: Updated to show the Spring logs

```
endif::[]

After you are finished checking out the application, stop your container by running the following command:

[role='command']
```
docker stop springBootContainer
```

ifndef::cloud-hosted[]

> == Faster starting up the container with InstantOn - Optional

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== Optional: Faster container startup with InstantOn
```

> Open Liberty InstantOn provides fast startup times for MicroProfile and Jakarta EE applications. In this section, you’ll learn how to build an InstantOn image that provides fast startup times. Your application can start in milliseconds, without compromising on throughput, memory, development-production parity, or Java language features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Liberty InstantOn provides fast startup times for MicroProfile and Jakarta EE applications. In this section, you’ll learn how to build an InstantOn image that provides fast startup times. Your application can start in milliseconds, without compromising on throughput, memory, development-production parity, or Java language features.
```

Think we should just use "Liberty InstantOn" whichever Liberty we're talking about. Otherwise, it gets confusing about what's the difference between Liberty InstantOn, Open Liberty InstantOn, Semeru InstantOn, InstantOn...

> InstantOn requires a Linux system with kernel version 5.9 or greater. If your system does not meet this prerequisite, go to the <<running-the-application-on-open-liberty>> section. You can run the following command to check out the kernel version of your system:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Liberty InstantOn requires a Linux system with kernel version 5.9 or greater. You can run the following command to check the kernel version of your system:
```

This felt a bit blunt and also a bit out of chronological order.

> If you are working on a Linux system with kernel version 5.9 or greater, you can continue with this section; otherwise, go to the <<running-the-application-on-open-liberty>> section. You can run the following command to check out the kernel version of your system:

Reviewer 3: does this mean that kernel version 5.9 or greater is an instanton prereq? If so, it could be clearer

```suggestion
InstantOn requires a Linux system with kernel version 5.9 or greater. If your system does not meet this prerequisite, go to the <<running-the-application-on-open-liberty>> section. You can run the following command to check out the kernel version of your system:
```

[role='command']
```
uname -r
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

If your kernel version is older than 5.9, you can skip this section and move on to the <<running-the-application-on-open-liberty>> section.

```

> The https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/reference/feature/crac.html[Coordinated Restore at Checkpoint^] feature enables Liberty to use the Liberty’s implementation of https://javadoc.io/doc/org.crac/crac/1.4.0/index.html[org.crac^] APIs and more logs from Spring when the application is restoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/reference/feature/crac.html[Coordinated Restore at Checkpoint^] feature enables applications to use Liberty’s implementation of the https://javadoc.io/doc/org.crac/crac/1.4.0/index.html[org.crac^] APIs. The Spring Framework hooks into the checkpoint and restore when the `org.crac` APIs are enabled. 
```

> The https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/reference/feature/crac.html[Coordinated Restore at Checkpoint^] (`crac`) feature enables applications to use Liberty’s implementation of the https://javadoc.io/doc/org.crac/crac/1.4.0/index.html[org.crac^] APIs. The Spring Framework hooks into the checkpoint and restore when the `org.crac` APIs are enabled.

Reviewer 3: what is the relationship between CRaC and instantOn - for users who arent familiar it might be confusing..

maybe something like "...enables applications to use the Liberty InstantOn implementation of the org.crac APIs"

if that's accurate

> The https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/reference/feature/crac.html[Coordinated Restore at Checkpoint^] (`crac`) feature enables applications to use the Liberty InstantOn implementation of the https://javadoc.io/doc/org.crac/crac/1.4.0/index.html[org.crac^] APIs. The Spring Framework hooks into the checkpoint and restore when the `org.crac` APIs are enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/reference/feature/crac.html[Coordinated Restore at Checkpoint^] (`crac`) Liberty feature enables applications to use the Liberty InstantOn implementation of the https://javadoc.io/doc/org.crac/crac/1.4.0/index.html[org.crac^] APIs. When the `org.crac` APIs are enabled, checkpoint and restore can work with applications written using the Spring Framework.
```
Does this last sentence still work? It felt a little ungrammatical and jargon-y before.

[role="code_command hotspot file=0", subs="quotes"]
----

> #Replace the `Dockerfile` in the `start` directory.#

Reviewer: This is confusing. Took me a minute to realize this means replace the `Dockerfile` content with the new content of the displayed `Dockerfile` in the tabs on the right.

Would it be more clear to have the title be:

### Enable the CRaC feature
Enable the `crac-1.4` feature by adding the following `COPY` command in the `Dockerfile`:

```
COPY --chown=1001:0 src/main/liberty/instantOn/crac.xml \
                    /config/configDropins/defaults/crac.xml
```

Author: In the guides practice, we use hotspot to highlight the command/code and its location in the file, instead of just providing it in the content. I updated that paragraph. Hope it can help.

`Dockerfile`
----

Dockerfile
[source, Text, linenums, role='code_column']
----
include::instantOn/Dockerfile[]
----

crac.xml
[source, xml, linenums, role='code_column']
----
include::finish/src/main/liberty/instantOn/crac.xml[]
----

> To enable the `crac` feature, add the [hotspot=cracXml file=0]`COPY` command that copies the provided `crac.xml` configuration file to the Liberty `configDropins` configuration directory. The crac.xml file enables the [hotspot=crac file=1]`crac` feature to the Liberty instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable the `crac` feature, add the [hotspot=cracXml file=0]`COPY` command that copies the provided `crac.xml` configuration file to the Liberty `configDropins` configuration directory. The `crac.xml` file enables the [hotspot=crac file=1]`crac` feature to the Liberty instance.
```

> To enable the `crac` feature, add the [hotspot=cracXml file=0]`COPY` command that copies the provided `crac.xml` configuration file to the Liberty `configDropins` configuration directory. The `crac.xml` file enables the [hotspot=crac file=1]`crac` feature to the Liberty instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [hotspot=cracXml file=0]`COPY` command copies the provided `crac.xml` configuration file to the Liberty `configDropins` configuration directory. The `crac.xml` file enables the [hotspot=crac file=1]`crac` feature to the Liberty instance.
```

Starting with "To enable" is unnecessary but also confusing because you've already got that line in the Dockerfile you've just replaced. It's not a step-by-step tutorial; the text is to explain the relevant bits of code in the files supplied.

Run the following command to rebuild the Docker image:
[role='command']
```
docker build -t springboot .
```

To take a checkpoint of the application process with the `afterAppStart` option, run the following command:

[role='command']
```
docker run \
  --name springBootCheckpointContainer \
  --privileged \
  --env WLP_CHECKPOINT=afterAppStart \
  springboot
```

When the application process checkpoint completes, the `springBootCheckpointContainer` application container is stopped and exits. The stopped `springBootCheckpointContainer` container contains the data from the InstantOn checkpoint process. To take this checkpoint process data and commit it to an application container image layer, run the following commands:

[role='command']
```
docker commit springBootCheckpointContainer springboot-instanton
docker rm springBootCheckpointContainer
```

The stopped `springBootCheckpointContainer` container is no longer needed and can safely be removed.

To verify that the InstantOn image is built, run the `docker images` command to list all local Docker images:

[role='command']
```
docker images
```

> Your `springboot-instanton` image appears in the list of Docker images. It shows a faster startup time than the original `springboot` image.

Reviewer 2: Is this true? The docker images list just shows that the images were created 20 secs vs 14 mins ago. The latter just means that the container was created 14 mins ago, not that it took 14 mins to startup, surely?

Reviewer 2: If it means in 20 secs in comparison to the 27 secs in the earlier docker images list, I think that needs to be explicitly stated in the text, not just left to the reader to work out the comparison for themself.

Reviewer 2: Also this isn't really a good way to measure startup time, is it? Isn't it better to highlight how long it took to start by comparing Liberty terminal startup output messages?

Reviewer 2: Should the comparison (a few lines down from here, rather than here) be 5.542 seconds vs 0.585 seconds ?

Author: The 20 secs vs 14 mins ago is under the `CREATED` column that indicates when the images were created. 

The statement "It shows a faster startup time than the original `springboot` image." like to describe the `springboot-instanton` image has a faster startup time. Is it better to change as following or remove that statement?
> It has a faster startup time than the original `springboot` image.

Author: Instead of showing the comparison of 5.542 seconds vs 0.585 seconds, the guide just says "Liberty’s startup is complete in less than a second:". Users may not remember the exact seconds for the original `springboot` image. Also, I prefer not hard-code the values in any statements, in the output as an example is fine.

Author: I moved the "It shows ..."  statement after "Liberty’s startup is complete ..."

Run the following command to see the container logs:

[role='command']
```
docker logs springBootContainer
```

You see more logs from Spring for restoring. Liberty’s startup is complete in less than a second:

[role='no_copy']
----
2024-11-22T16:33:43.349Z  INFO 1027 --- [ecutor-thread-1] o.s.c.support.DefaultLifecycleProcessor  : Restarting Spring-managed lifecycle beans after JVM restore
...
2024-11-22T16:33:43.562Z  INFO 1027 --- [ecutor-thread-1] w.s.c.ServletWebServerApplicationContext : Root WebApplicationContext: initialization completed in 135784 ms
2024-11-22T16:33:43.568Z  INFO 1027 --- [ecutor-thread-1] o.s.c.support.DefaultLifecycleProcessor  : Spring-managed lifecycle restart completed (restored JVM running for 525 ms)
...
CWWKZ0001I: Application thin-guide-spring-boot-0.1.0 started in 0.585 seconds.
...
CWWKF0011I: The defaultServer server is ready to run a smarter planet.
The defaultServer server started in 0.323 seconds.
----

Go to the http://localhost:9080/hello[^] URL to access the application.

After you are finished checking out the application, stop your container by running the following command:

[role='command']
```
docker stop springBootContainer
```

> If you use Podman instead of Docker, you can build your InstantOn image in a simply way. Read the https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/instanton.html#checkpoint_script[Building the InstantOn image with Podman and the checkpoint.sh script^] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Podman instead of Docker, you can build your InstantOn image in a simplified way. Read the https://openliberty.io/docs/latest/instanton.html#checkpoint_script[Building the InstantOn image with Podman and the checkpoint.sh script^] documentation.
```
